Month in Mathlib May 2024 (#76)
leanprover-community/blog: posts/month-in-mathlib-may-2024.md

---
author: 'Mathlib community'
category: 'month-in-mathlib'
date: 2024-06-11 22:00:56+00:00
description: ''
has_math: true
link: ''
slug: month-in-mathlib-may-2024
tags: ''
title: This month in mathlib (May 2024)
type: text
---

The last Month in Mathlib posts date from before the port started, in November 2022. We apologise for the momentary disappearance. We aim to keep it a monthly occurrence from now on.

There were 667 PRs merged in May 2024.

<!-- TEASER_END -->

* Algebra

>   * In Lie theory, [PR #12297](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12297) proves that any finite-dimensional Lie algebra over an infinite field contains a Cartan subalgebra (in fact many). [PR #12937](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12937) proves that the root spaces of a semisimple Lie algebra relative to a splitting Cartan subalgebra are 1-dimensional, and [PR #13307](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13307) proves that the roots of a semisimple Lie algebra are actually an abstract (reduced, crystallographic) root system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * In Lie theory, Johan Commelin established several important structural properties of Lie algebras. This included [PR #12297](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12297) which establishes the existence of Cartan subalgebras, [PR #13391](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13391) which proves that semisimplicity follows from the existence of a non-degenerate invariant form, [PR #13265](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13265) which specialises this result to the case of the Killing form, and [PR #13217](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13217) which proves that semisimple Lie algebras have trivial (solvable) radical. Care was taken to ensure that none of these results make any assumptions on characteristic of the coefficients. Separately, the theory of root spaces was further developed. Firstly [PR #12712](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12712) added a proof that elements of a Cartan subalgebra are semi-simple, and [PR #13076](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13076) added the definition and basic properties of `sl₂` triples. Using these [PR #12937](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12937) added the proof that root spaces of a semisimple Lie algebra relative to a splitting Cartan subalgebra are 1-dimensional. Andrew Yang then took up the reins and authored a series of PRs culminating in the wonderful [PR #13307](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13307) which proved that the roots of a semisimple Lie algebra are an abstract (reduced, crystallographic) root system.
```

  * Joël Riou
    * [PR #12713](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12713) :: feat(Algebra/Category/ModuleCat): the category of presheaves of modules has colimits
* Mitchell Lee laid the groundwork for future material on Coxeter groups. [PR #11465] defines the length function on a Coxeter group and proves its basic properties. [PR #11466] defines reflections and inversions in a Coxeter group and proves that the inversion sequence of a reduced word consists of distinct reflections.
* In [PR #12647], Mitchell Lee formalized a proof of the equational criterion for vanishing, a necessary and sufficient criterion for a sum of pure tensors in the tensor product of two modules to vanish.

>   * Oliver Nash
>     * [PR #13208](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13208) :: feat: equality of coroots implies equality of roots for Lie algebras
>     * [PR #13298](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13298) :: feat(Algebra/Lie/Weights): `n` such that `n • α + β` is a weight is consecutive.
>     * [PR #13217](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13217) :: feat(Algebra/Lie/Semisimple): API for semisimple Lie algebras
>     * [PR #13370](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13370) :: chore(Algebra/Lie/Abelian): a nonabelian atomic Lie ideal is perfect
>     * [PR #13387](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13387) :: chore(Algebra/Lie/Submodule): the lattice of Lie submodules is atomic
>     * [PR #13391](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13391) :: feat(Algebra/Lie/InvariantForm): Lie algebras with a nondegenerate invariant form are semisimple
>     * [PR #13265](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13265) :: feat(Algebra/Lie): Killing Lie algebras are semisimple
>     * [PR #13179](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13179) :: feat: add lemma `LieAlgebra.IsKilling.span_weight_isNonZero_eq_top`
>     * [PR #12712](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12712) :: feat: Cartan subalgebras contain only semisimple elements if the Killing form is non-singular and the coefficients are a perfect field.
>     * [PR #13076](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13076) :: feat: define `sl₂` triples and prove basic result

Reviewer: This can all go if we accept my suggestion [above](https://github.com/leanprover-community/blog/pull/76/files#r1659906136)
```suggestion
```

  * [PR #12721](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12721) :: feat(Algebra/Category/ModuleCat): the category of presheaves of modules is abelian
  * Amelia Livingston added some boilerplate defining coalgebra isomorphisms in [PR #11970](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/11970), the category of coalgebras in [PR #11972](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/11972), and homomorphisms and isomorphisms of bialgebras in [PR #11962](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/11962) and [PR #11971](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/11971). This API will be used to define the monoidal category structure on co/bi/Hopf algebras. It will also be linked to Kim Morrison's work on co/bi/Hopf monoids, as well as the material about group objects formalised at [Formalisation of Mathematics: Workshop for Women and Mathematicians of Minority Gender](https://www.icms.org.uk/Formalisation) with Rebecca Bellovin and Sophie Morel.
  * Joël Riou
    * [PR #12713](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12713) :: feat(Algebra/Category/ModuleCat): the category of presheaves of modules has colimits

>   * Mitchell Lee
>     * [PR #11465](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/11465) :: feat: length, reduced words in Coxeter groups
>     * [PR #11466](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/11466) :: feat: reflections, inversion sequences in Coxeter groups
>     * [PR #12647](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12647) :: feat: the equational criterion for vanishing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Mitchell Lee laid the groundwork for future material on Coxeter groups. [PR #11465] defines the length function on a Coxeter group and proves its basic properties. [PR #11466] defines reflections and inversions in a Coxeter group and proves that the inversion sequence of a reduced word consists of distinct reflections.
* In [PR #12647], Mitchell Lee formalized a proof of the equational criterion for vanishing, a necessary and sufficient criterion for a sum of pure tensors in the tensor product of two modules to vanish.
```

>   * Mitchell Lee
>     * [PR #12669](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12669) :: feat: completion of a nonarchimedean additive group

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * In [PR #12669], Mitchell Lee proved that the completion of a nonarchimedean group is again nonarchimedean.
```

    * [PR #12870](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12870) proving the explicit sheaf condition for condensed objects in a very general target category. Previously, we only had this in certain concrete categories.
  * Dagur Asgeirsson
    * [PR #9513](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/9513) :: feat(LightProfinite): (co)limits
    * [PR #11585](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/11585) :: feat(LightProfinite): `LightProfinite` is precoherent

* Measure Theory.
  * Rémy Degenne
    * [PR #12759](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12759) :: feat: every s-finite measure is absolutely continuous w.r.t. some finite measure
    * [PR #12467](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12467) :: feat: add algebra of sets
  * Kalle Kytölä
    * [PR #11815](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/11815) :: feat: Embed a space into probability measures on it.

* Number Theory.
  * David Loeffler

>     * [PR #12265](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12265) :: feat(NumberTheory/LSeries): Even Hurwitz zeta functions (II)
>     * [PR #12779](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12779) :: feat(NumberTheory/LSeries): Odd Hurwitz zeta functions
>     * [PR #12897](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12897) :: feat (NumberTheory/LSeries): Hurwitz zeta
>     * [PR #13347](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13347) :: feat(NumberTheory/LSeries): special values of Hurwitz zeta
>     * [PR #13273](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13273) :: feat(NumberTheory/LSeries): Riemann zeta as special case of Hurwitz

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    * [PR #12897](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12897) defines the **Hurwitz zeta function**, and proves its key properties (analytic continuation + functional equation). This is a generalisation of the Riemann zeta function, and is an important step towards Dirichlet L-functions in the near future. (Subsidiary PR's include [PR #12779](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12779), [PR #12265](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12265), [PR #13347](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13347), [PR #13273](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13273).)
```

    * [PR #12923](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12923) :: feat (NumberTheory/Harmonic): compute Gamma'(1/2)

>   * Riccardo Brasca

Reviewer 4: This can be removed, it is not interesting (of course the final proof will be!).

date: 2024-06-11 22:00:56+00:00
description: ''
has_math: true
link: ''
slug: month-in-mathlib-may-2024
tags: ''
title: This month in mathlib (May 2024)
type: text
---

The last Month in Mathlib posts date from before the port started, in November 2022. We apologise for the momentary disappearance. We aim to keep it a monthly occurrence from now on.

There were 667 PRs merged in May 2024.

<!-- TEASER_END -->

* Algebra
  * In Lie theory, [PR #12297](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12297) proves that any finite-dimensional Lie algebra over an infinite field contains a Cartan subalgebra (in fact many). [PR #12937](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12937) proves that the root spaces of a semisimple Lie algebra relative to a splitting Cartan subalgebra are 1-dimensional, and [PR #13307](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13307) proves that the roots of a semisimple Lie algebra are actually an abstract (reduced, crystallographic) root system.
  * [PR #12721](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12721) :: feat(Algebra/Category/ModuleCat): the category of presheaves of modules is abelian

>   * Amelia Livingstone
>     * [PR #11962](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/11962) :: feat: bialgebra homomorphisms
>     * [PR #11971](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/11971) :: feat: bialgebra isomorphisms
>     * [PR #11970](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/11970) :: feat: coalgebra isomorphisms
>     * [PR #11972](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/11972) :: feat: category of coalgebras

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  * Amelia Livingston added some boilerplate defining coalgebra isomorphisms in [PR #11970](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/11970), the category of coalgebras in [PR #11972](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/11972), and homomorphisms and isomorphisms of bialgebras in [PR #11962](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/11962) and [PR #11971](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/11971). This API will be used to define the monoidal category structure on co/bi/Hopf algebras. It will also be linked to Kim Morrison's work on co/bi/Hopf monoids, as well as the material about group objects formalised at [Formalisation of Mathematics: Workshop for Women and Mathematicians of Minority Gender](https://www.icms.org.uk/Formalisation) with Rebecca Bellovin and Sophie Morel.
```

I hope this is ok! Let me know if I should expand on it, but the PRs themselves were just thought-free boilerplate mimicking existing mathlib files

* Metaprogramming.
  * Miyahara Kō heroically ported the `cc` tactic to Lean 4: [PR #11956](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/11956), [PR #11960](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/11960) and [PR #5938](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/5938).
  * Damiano Testa and Yaël Dillies replaced the `mk_all` shell script hardcoded to Mathlib with a Lean script that dynamically figures out the Lean libraries (sadly, Mathlib still needs some separate handling) in [PR #11853](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/11853), and [PR #11874](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/11874) made use of it in the "Check all files are imported" CI step. The script can now be used by any project downstream of Mathlib. If you maintain such a project, we encourage you to switch over to the new script and report eventual bugs.
  * Vasily Nesterov implemented a simplex algorithm oracle in [PR #12014](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12014). This is now the default oracle for `linarith` instead of the much slower Fourier-Motzkin oracle.

>   * [PR #13190](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13190) and [PR #13293](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13293) by Michael Rothgang and Damiano Testa neuters a very pernicious footgun: Contrary to expectations, `attribute [non_local_attribute] decl in` would **globally** tag `decl` with attribute `non_local_attribute`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  * [PR #13190](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13190) and [PR #13293](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13293) by Michael Rothgang and Damiano Testa neuters a very pernicious footgun: contrary to expectations, `attribute [non_local_attribute] decl in` would **globally** tag `decl` with attribute `non_local_attribute`.
```
maybe?  Although I see that the post has several occurrences of a capital letter after a colon, so maybe this is intended.

Author: I think I _slightly_ prefer capitalising after a colon since it is technically a new sentence starting

<!-- TEASER_END -->

* Algebra
* [PR #13271](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13271) :: chore(mathlib4/Algebra/BigOperators/Basic): unscope `∑ x ∈ s, f x` notations
* In Lie theory, [PR #12297](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12297) proves that any finite-dimensional Lie algebra over an infinite field contains a Cartan subalgebra (in fact many). [PR #12937](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12937) proves that the root spaces of a semisimple Lie algebra relative to a splitting Cartan subalgebra are 1-dimensional, and [PR #13307](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13307) proves that the roots of a semisimple Lie algebra are actually an abstract (reduced, crystallographic) root system.
* [PR #12721](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12721) :: feat(Algebra/Category/ModuleCat): the category of presheaves of modules is abelian

* Algebraic Geometry.
  * [PR #12917](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12917) by Jonas van der Schaaf, Amelia Livingston and later Christian Merten defines closed immersions.

* Analysis.

>   * Sébastien Gouëzel 
>     * [PR #12769](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12769) :: feat: Fourier transform of iterated derivatives
>     * [PR #12144](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12144) :: feat: Fourier transform as a continuous linear equiv on Schwartz space

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
  * Sébastien Gouëzel completed the proof that the Fourier transform is well defined on the Schwartz space of a Euclidean space. [PR #12769](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12769) shows how one can bound derivatives of the Fourier transform of a function (multiplied by a power function) in terms of derivatives of the initial function (multiplied by a power function). [PR #12144](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12144) uses this to define the Fourier transform as a continuous linear equivalence on Schwartz space (taking advantage of the Fourier inversion formula to get the inverse direction from the forward direction). Note that the Schwartz space is a Fréchet space but not a normed space, so this builds on a lot of analysis on Fréchet spaces in terms of families of seminorms.
```

    * Building up on thoses two series of PRs, [PR #13074](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13074) defines corners and corner-free set and [PR #9000](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/9000) finally proves the Corners theorem and Roth's theorem. They respectively state that a corner-free set in `[N] × [N]` and a 3AP-free set in `[N]` have vanishingly small density as `N` goes to infinity.

    [APAP](https://github.com/YaelDillies/LeanAPAP) already contains the stronger result that the density goes to zero as `1/log log N`, and will soon prove the state of the art result of `exp(-(log N)^1/9)`.
  * Mathlib finally knows about Hamiltonian paths and cycles thanks to a team effort started at Lean for the Curious Mathematician 2023 in Düsseldorf by Rishi Mehta and Linus Sommer under the supervision of Bhavik Mehta, and recently continued by Lode Vermeulen in [PR #7102](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/7102).

> * Condensed mathematics.
> * [PR #11586](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/11586) :: feat(Condensed): light condensed objects
> * [PR #12870](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12870) :: feat(Condensed): prove the explicit sheaf condition for a general target category
> * [PR #13501](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13501) :: feat(Condensed): light condensed modules
> * [PR #13503](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13503) :: feat(Condensed): explicit sheaf condition for light condensed sets
> * [PR #13500](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13500) :: feat(Condensed): discrete light condensed objects
> * [PR #13502](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13502) :: feat(Condensed): functor from light profinite sets to light condensed sets

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
* Condensed mathematics.
  * The work towards getting the basics of condensed mathematics into mathlib started about a year ago at a workshop in Copenhagen organized by Dagur Asgeirsson. The workshop participants made great progress and proved results like the characterization of condensed sets as finite-product-preserving presheaves on `Stonean`. Since then, Dagur has been moving the material to mathlib and developing it further. In May, the definition of a light condensed object made it to mathlib (see [PR #11586](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/11586)). This is a concept introduced by Clausen and Scholze less than a year ago, and is an improvement over condensed sets in that it removes certain size-issues, as it is a sheaf over an essentially small site. Another result that landed in mathlib in May is the explicit sheaf condition ([PR #12870](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12870)) for condensed objects in a very general target category (we had this only in certain concrete categories before).
```

Reviewer 8: Maybe this is too long, tell me if you want me to cut something, or feel free to do it yourself

Author: No, looks good!

Reviewer 8: Did you mean to commit this? The conversation is resolved but it's still the old text.

Author: Sorry, I have been badly multitasking all of today

---
author: 'Mathlib community'
category: 'month-in-mathlib'
date: 2024-06-11 22:00:56+00:00
description: ''
has_math: true
link: ''
slug: month-in-mathlib-may-2024
tags: ''
title: This month in mathlib (May 2024)
type: text
---

The last Month in Mathlib posts date from before the port started, in November 2022. We apologise for the momentary disappearance. We aim to keep it a monthly occurrence from now on.

There were 920 PRs merged in May 2024, a 35% percent increase compared to the 682 PRs merged two years ago in May 2022.

<!-- TEASER_END -->

* Algebra

> * [PR #13271](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13271) :: chore(mathlib4/Algebra/BigOperators/Basic): unscope `∑ x ∈ s, f x` notations

Author: I think it's important to announce *somewhere* that `open scoped BigOperators` is now a no-op. Lean won't tell you.

> * [PR #13271](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13271) :: chore(mathlib4/Algebra/BigOperators/Basic): unscope `∑ x ∈ s, f x` notations

Reviewer 9: Were there removed from Mathlib?

> * [PR #13271](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13271) :: chore(mathlib4/Algebra/BigOperators/Basic): unscope `∑ x ∈ s, f x` notations

Author: Yes, they were removed in https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13181.

Note that I now moved the above line from "Algebra" to "General library maintenance"

> * [PR #12937](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12937) :: feat: Lie algebra root spaces are 1-dimensional
> * [PR #12297](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12297) :: feat(Algebra/Lie): existence of Cartan subalgebras
> * [PR #13307](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13307) :: feat(Algebra/Lie/Weights): The root system of a lie algebra.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In Lie theory [PR #12297](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12297) proves that any finite-dimensional Lie algebra over an infinite field contains a Cartan subalgebra (in fact many). [PR #12937](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12937) proves that the root spaces of a semisimple Lie algebra relative to a splitting Cartan subalgebra are 1-dimensional, and [PR #13307](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13307) proves that the roots of a semisimple Lie algebra are actually an abstract (reduced, crystallographic) root system.
```

> * [PR #12721](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12721) :: feat(Algebra/Category/ModuleCat): the category of presheaves of modules is abelian

Reviewer: I've made a small suggestion above.

* Algebraic Geometry.
  * [PR #12917](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12917) by Jonas van der Schaaf, Amelia Livingston and later Christian Merten defines closed immersions.

* Analysis.
  * Sébastien Gouëzel 
    * [PR #12769](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12769) :: feat: Fourier transform of iterated derivatives
    * [PR #12144](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12144) :: feat: Fourier transform as a continuous linear equiv on Schwartz space
  * Chris Birkbeck proved that Eisenstein series converge uniformly in [PR #10377](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/10377) and that they are holomorphic in [PR #11013](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/11013). This will soon to used to show that they are modular forms.

> * Category Theory.
>   * A tremendous amount of derived categories work by Joël Riou is hitting Mathlib at a rapid pace: [PR #12619](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12619) defines t-structures in (pre)triangulated categories, [PR #11738](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/11738) and [PR #11786](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/11786) show that the localisation of a pretriangulated (resp. triangulated) category by a class of morphisms compatible with the triangulation and having a left (resp. left and right) calculus of fractions is also pretriangulated (resp. triangulated), [PR #11789](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/11789) defines the class of morphisms whose cone belongs to a triangulated subcategory, [PR #11805](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/11805) defines the long exact sequence of a homological functor from a pretriangulated category to an abelian category, and finally [PR #11806](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/11806) constructs the derived category of an abelian category and shows that it is triangulated.
> * [PR #11760](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/11760) :: feat: the homological functor on the homotopy category of cochain complexes in an abelian category

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
* Category Theory.
  * After an important effort by Joël Riou, derived categories of abelian categories and their triangulated structure are now in Mathlib since [PR #11806](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/11806). Using the triangulated structure on the homotopy category of an abelian categories (which was already obtained during the [Liquid Tensor Experiment](https://leanprover-community.github.io/blog/posts/lte-final/)), this essentially follows from the localization theorem for triangulated categories [PR #11786](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/11786). Derived categories shall soon have more applications inside mathlib, thanks to the formalization of total derived functors [PR #12788](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12788) and t-structures [PR #12619](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/12619).
```

    * Building up on thoses two series of PRs, [PR #13074](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/13074) defines corners and corner-free set and [PR #9000](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/9000) finally proves the Corners theorem and Roth's theorem. They respectively state that a corner-free set in `[N] × [N]` and a 3AP-free set in `[N]` have vanishingly small density as `N` goes to infinity.

    [APAP](https://github.com/YaelDillies/LeanAPAP) already contains the stronger result that the density goes to zero as `1/log log N`, and will soon prove the state of the art result of `exp(-(log N)^1/9)`.

>   * Mathlib finally knows about Hamiltonian paths and cycles thanks to a team effort started at the September 2023 Bonn by Rishi Mehta and Linus Sommer under the supervision of Bhavik Mehta, and recently continued by Lode Vermeulen in [PR #7102](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/7102).

Reviewer 11: This was at LftCM in Düsseldorf :-) How about something like this? (Or omitting the conference; I don't mind either way)
```suggestion
  * Mathlib finally knows about Hamiltonian paths and cycles thanks to a team effort started at the "Lean for the curious mathematician" conference in Düsseldorf in September 2023 by Rishi Mehta and Linus Sommer under the supervision of Bhavik Mehta, and recently continued by Lode Vermeulen in [PR #7102](https://github.com/leanprover-community/mathlib4/pull/7102).
